# SNHU-CS-300

**What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?**<br />
In these project a school advising team needed software to organize classes for a degree path. This program needed to store the course number, name and any prerequisites for the classes in this degree path and make it possible to print a list of the courses sorted alphanumerically by the course numbers as well as to search for a class by it's course number and print the information about this course including the course number, name, and any prerequisites.

**How did you approach the problem?**<br />
I started with project wone analyzing the run-time and memory usage of different data structures. In doing this I was able to compare a vector, hash table, and a binary search tree for their capabilities for the task at hand. After looking at the requisites of these data structure I came to the conclusion that a binary search tree would best serve the needs of this project. Although it does take longer to input the information initially it pays off when printing information as the initial loading of information also sorts it which does lengthen this initial loading of information but makes all the future uses of the information contained faster as the data is already organized.

**How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?**<br />
It had been a little while since I had needed to write code to read information from a file and the first time I had needed to get this much information from a single line of the file so it took me a little while to figure out a method of reading the information I eventually found that using a stringstream was the best way to successfully do this. It also took me a little while to decide what the best way of creating an object to hold the course information would be since not all of the courses had the same amount of prerequisites I eventually settled on using a struct and if a course had less than the most amount of prerquisites I filled the prerequisite spots with a marker character that helped to determine wether to print information for the print method.

**How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?**<br />
This was my first time evaluating run-time and memory usage for data structures so learning about this has given me a tool to use later when determining how information should be stored. I admitedly felt very uncertain doing this but hope that as I continue to do it I'll become more confident in this skill. I have also learned about several new ways of storing information in different data structures so these will absolutely prove beneficial going forward as well.

**How has your work on this project evolved the way your write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?**<br />
I feel good about the compartmentalization of different functions in this project which makes the code more adaptable as new functions can be added in and new code written to allow for these new functions to funciton. In my menu I used a switch funtion with several empty choices to allow for future expansion as well. After submiting this project I did lose points for not enough comments explaining my code so in the future I do plan on taking this into account to assist in making my code more readable going forward.
